[Music]
the picture of that was taken during
eclipse just I kind of remind us that
you put this up put your hands up so the
air and you normally have like a circle
but you've got these little little moon
shapes because everything every moment
that we're in we're being affected by
our environment this photographs can
only be taken in that moment and not the
moment afterwards life is is super
complex living systems are complex and
and they're so well evolved that we
really largely take them for granted
right highly automated you don't
actually try it will your hair to grow
you don't will trees to grow all of the
things that we depend on our systems
that are they're happening without our
intention and the more that we find out
about these systems the more complex we
realize they are and that's effectively
what I've I've been spending the last 20
years really researching living systems
that is designing for living systems and
that by that I mean really systems that
are living as well as systems for living
I'm not an ecologist I was I started as
an industrial designer but I've been
asking the question of how how do we
support life with the way we design
things and by the technologies we use
and ultimately by the technologies we
start to develop so in the summer of
1999 I moved down to Austin Texas and I
lived in this silver trailer and I was
there to build flexible living aspectual
building systems for a project for the
US department of environmental
protection agency and it was compelling
to me at the time because it meant
exploring this kind of central absurdity
in how we make things which is to take
incredibly valuable materials like
everything in our manufactured and built
environment unbelievably precious in a
sense because we're really stripping it
out of the surface of the earth and we
entombed them and built into buildings
or into products that are inevitably
going to change
and so you know these buildings need to
could change over time to fit new needs
so the pieces can be swapped out or
repaired and the very core of a flexible
building system is the notion that
anything we design or construct is
subject to change is destined to change
and it's really just a temporary
arrangement of atoms and that's
generally that kind of describes how I
think about design in general is how do
we how do we design for these flows of
things that are very temporarily based
they only are with us for a short period
of time it may seem like a long time for
ourselves in our short lives but but
everything is is constantly shifting so
everything that we make is changing and
thinking about a building as a point in
time and designing it to be changeable
or mutable or disassembled seemed to me
at the time to be worth living in the
shack in the woods getting paid 40 bucks
a week and working in 114 degree heat
and I lived there I went back actually I
went and lived there for a year like an
insane person and we were doing a lot of
us or trial and error to build not this
building this is actually just a shack
in the woods but the building that we
were working on were prototypes right
and we were building like
high-performance buildings so buildings
that use a very little amount of energy
generate energy on-site are able to get
all the water they need locally those
kinds of things you make the building
and you test it it's labor-intensive and
it's iterative but over these long time
horizons and in the background we're
constantly running these calculations on
ecological footprints right we look at
the site and we'd sit there and go okay
how how much how many trees do you have
on a piece of land and how much oxygen
and co2 is cycling through that little
spot to support how many humans and how
many how much square footage of roof
area do you need to capture all the
water during the rainy season to carry
the family through the dry season these
kinds of calculations all the time and
again slow kind of handmade work even
even the math and so I got caught up a
live a sort of calculus because I put my
on a mission which was to apply my
creative energy towards optimizing the
health of living systems at different
scales and so you know even though I was
ostensibly
an industrial designer in this case I
was working with green builders and
ecological land planners and I never
really fully went back to industrial
design because in a lot of ways I was
very much focused on the systems that we
were that we were designing for um but
the situation we were in was pretty
marginal right now we're looking almost
twenty years back and so this is from
the inside of my trailer and we're kind
of up against the edge of society
because we're trying to engage the
steepest problems and when we looked at
what we wanted to have happen and even
now what we want to have happened to
really apply common sense approaches to
how we create and design the built
environment we were experiencing a lot
of headwinds right that there was a need
for extreme specialist knowledge you
know there was there was the time to
make these kind of handmade physical
prototypes we had to understand there
was very little understanding of
alternative materials of alternative
energy systems we needed to effectively
reform the entire design education
system there need to be better media
talking about it we should be running
better competitions we should be
researching new materials and maybe we
should be developing new technologies to
enable this to happen so these are all
the headwinds at the time and addressing
each of these kind of in across the
board is effectively what I spent the
next 20 years on it's what a lot of
people have spent time on is how do we
take this these kinds of processes these
kinds of explorations that are worthy
but so slow and so so much not the kind
of standard practice in how we design
and build and how do we very very
quickly start to deploy them and make
that more effective so and as I was
going through I kept kind of asking
myself like as I was working on these
different projects like is this the
leverage point is this a leverage point
like what's the thing that's going to
allow us to
shift the way that we that we make stuff
I did spend some years just doing doing
more kind of standard like atomized
project I spent some time as a
woodworker doing really like high-end
fancy things for very wealthy people and
doing various kinds of material
explorations and geometric explorations
and and different different kinds of
visual stuff and ran a whole project at
one point looking at how we could make
degradable replacements for plastic food
packaging and so I spent a bunch of time
you know with like these cornstarch
mixes and seaweed pastes and I was
talking to food scientists and medical
engineers about non-toxic biopolymers
basically trying to say okay plastic
waste and in the food system how do we
hack that and and create things that can
just dissolve at the end of their life
and I realized very much this is a
problem that I couldn't very easily
solve alone these are kind of systems
problems even and you know Here I am
completely solitary in my kitchen like
shooting on film trying to do different
kinds of materials like for Asians to
figure out what kinds of what kinds of
polymers we could create out of food
grade materials and have that degrade
stuff that I actually ended up exploring
again I'll talk about in a few minutes
but a lot of these things are kind of
systems questions they're not just this
one material they're kind of like
where's the material come from and where
does it go so I did a bunch of work
looking at some at like cycles of
materials how do we how we how do we
generate greener materials and have
those things be used and then have them
be recaptured what's now being referred
to as kind of circular economy
principles and I also was very much
involved with a group of folks who were
really looking at all the different
beautiful kinds of solutions and
responses that were being created and
thinking okay we have a pretty strong
point of view that many of the things
that we need with the ways that we can
respond to ecological challenges humans
have figured most of this stuff out
right that that the biggest problem that
we have is distributed distribution of
these ideas so we worked on this massive
compendium sick
hundred pages long that's all kind of a
breakdown of solutions is now over ten
years old and I think it you know in a
lot of ways it did have a certain kind
of effect it was it was very heartening
to see that we go back to these kinds of
concepts but again I don't think that
the just the the collating of these
kinds of ideas is necessarily enough to
see the transformation that we're
looking for so I almost ten years ago I
ended up going and starting work after
finishing this project and I went to
work with Autodesk here in San Francisco
and the reason in a lot of ways was that
coming from something like like design
or industrial design realizing that so
much of so many of the questions that
that we asked we were dealing with
material reality are not just aesthetic
ones right they are they really have to
do with the flows of energy and the
flows of materials and those are
actually engineering questions as well
as design questions they work
beautifully together when they do and so
I was I was very excited to go and work
somewhere where we could actually start
exploring those those energy flows
materials flows and spent a lot of the
last 10 years doing that one of the
challenges that we that I encountered
was that when we started creating tools
for doing green building for example we
kind of came back to that same problem I
talked about earlier where actually
people didn't really know how to do it
they didn't even understand the basic
physics of of energy or how buildings
worked and so we needed to in fact
create learning materials to teach
people how to do that and so I spent
some time doing that just really trying
to break break down the systems of how
energy is used in our industrial society
or looking at the different kinds of
materials and energy footprints around
the things that we make because you know
in this case if you can keep a mobile
phone and use for many many more times
longer if you're able to swap out its
components for evil to repair it you're
able to avoid massive amounts
of physical waste all the stuff is on a
on a site called the the sustainability
workshop and these are these are kind of
almost like you could not engineer this
kind of efficiency it's not it's not
actually possible but you can be
designing things in harmony with those
kinds of things so we spent a lot of
time teaching about those kinds of
concepts and a couple years ago I got
very involved in looking at additive
manufacturing which I know many of you
here are familiar with and we've got
beautiful examples of stuff out in the
gallery and one of the challenges here I
mean I was looking at a manufacturing
kind of as a whole so you're looking at
computer-controlled processes that are
used to create a three-dimensional
object layer by layer much of the stuff
it's not all polymer based but much of
it is and you know I'm not a chemist I
haven't I've never worked in chemistry
but one of the the critical problems in
looking at additive manufacturing
there's all these opportunities that
happen one of the critical problems is
around
the materials that are going to get used
the opportunity side we we know like all
of a sudden you're able to make anything
you want you've got you know the
capacity to make something kind of on
demand one at a time not have to deal
with the huge amounts of inventory
there's lots of really beautiful
potential in a technology but the
standard that the chemistry is still
standard practice and one of the things
that that I did was start looking at
that and working with people in the
field called green chemistry which is
interestingly a a small rarefied field
of chemistry in which people actually
look at toxicology as the first question
they ask which is interesting if you
realize that all the rest of the
chemists in the world aren't asking that
question what are the hazardous what are
the hazard considerations the human
health considerations of the chemistry's
that we're formulating right and so any
other thing that I actually learned from
talking with them was that the majority
of the chemistry that is actually being
done is in fact
not just polymer chemistry but it's it's
it's petrochemical so like the majority
of all chemistry done by chemists in the
world is basically looking at at at
petrochemicals because the carbon bonds
and the nature of that chemistry is is
so easily manipulated manipulated it's
actually really wonderful to work with
but you know so you're looking at this
really elegant new form of technology
new way of making things but you're
dealing with old chemistry and and so
that was that was kind of the most
difficult problem that we started to
look at so I was working with with
Autodesk and they have a 3d printer they
were developing called ember which was
able to make these incredibly beautiful
really really elegant gorgeous forms
very very detailed but that in some ways
really duplicate the shapes of things
that you see in nature but at the at the
cellular level at the chemical level
they're radically different they don't
function at all like what you would see
in a biological system they are really
very very very different structurally
very different but you but visually get
a sense of it and so this is where we
started to really dive in to understand
where where could we bring these worlds
together what are the things that we can
actually learn from the way that that
biological systems really create shapes
is actually looking at looking at
feathers and fortunately we're working
with it with a system that was all
open-source so all of the all the code
all of the CAD files and actually all of
the resin chemistry we're open-source
which meant that we could then take that
and go and work with researchers in this
case we're working with UC Berkeley to
really start figuring out different
opportunities and so we we teamed up
with them and with with a group called
the biomimicry Institute to start
researching different kinds of ways of
creating materials this is ongoing this
is really an ongoing question we just
started pushing at it because these
technologies are still so new and so
nascent and if we anticipate that they
will scale that we'll see more of them
this is really the time to be looking at
kind of fundamental questions because
when I say that this that the the
materials aren't good they're really not
good like you don't want them in your
body you don't want them you don't want
them in your kids bodies they you know
you can look that you can look this
stuff up it's fairly standard set of
photopolymer chemistry and it's known to
be an eco toxin so we did a lot of work
to kind of publish that and also talk
about methodologies for being able to
understand different ways of making
stuff and one of the this is you can see
one needs to be wearing gloves and and
head urine stuff to be able to handle it
one of the things that we were exploring
one of our out of the students that we
were working with at UC Berkeley was
exploring was just really unpacking how
is it that in this case how does how two
muscles attach themselves to rocks when
they're being hit by huge amounts of
wave force it turns out it's because
they're able to to effect a shift in the
ph of water to create an adhesive and so
those kinds of those like little kinds
of explorations if they could be applied
to the way that we manufacture stuff
even if it's a completely different form
of additive manufacturing it's a really
really interesting kind of exploration
so I'm hoping to see more of that in the
world that the work that we the team did
got published in that in the Yale
Journal of industrial ecology that's
coming coming up soon relatedly I think
relatedly in the sense of that we can
we're looking at materials at different
different scales I mean I went from very
blue team very very small the chemistry
of stuff on the other end of of the
scale of the things that we make our say
are looking at things like steel so
steel is one of the I think it's like
the second most pervasive material that
humans use after concrete and you can
imagine it uses a huge amount of
material from the Earth's crust and
therefore uses a ton of energy to
process and therefore is is related to a
significant amount of emissions right
for it so that it affects climate just
like everything we do does
we look at something like like the way
that the most buildings are built
you've got standardized pieces
standardized shapes like I beams used in
buildings that often mean that you end
up with way more use of those materials
than are needed there's a guy called
Julian all wood in the UK who did a
breakdown and and realized that that it
at least in the UK there was at least
40% more structural steel being used in
buildings that needed to be to meet the
code okay so huge amount more material
being used and the reason was that it
actually was more expensive to engineer
it out than it was to just use the
materials right so buying more steel was
cheaper than buying the brain power or
computing power of removing it and this
this kind of question of how do we get
the thing that we need so it actually
will stand up the building will stand up
it'll be structurally sound and safe and
beautiful and also be able to use the
least amount of materials is a really
valid question you know how do we do
that and how do we do that in a way that
people feel comfortable about you know
because we have when we're doing things
in a in a one-at-a-time way we tend to
over engineer we tend to be very
conservative so it was really
interesting to see when I was in the
last few years people doing explorations
around generative design whereby you
would look at one shape and run it
through through an engine to be able to
to run algorithms to see what are the
many many different kinds of shapes that
would have it that could be created that
would serve the same purpose and you end
up with many many many different
variations that are generated by white
engine effectively so what it means here
is that technology is suddenly able
enables us to deal with higher levels of
complexity you're able to do so many
more tests on things because you're not
doing it one at a time and having that
be taking years so those kinds of
simulations that are happening many many
times over in parallel
may help us start to develop technology
in support of living systems right and
what's also interesting about it is that
when you see these kinds of of things
being developed through these kinds of
technologies this is something but the
Autodesk develops called dreamcatcher
that my colleagues were working on that
they start to in fact look like forms
from nature because they're running
through an evolutionary process the
apart of I showed you the very slow
process of making stuff at the beginning
is just to say you know for me to go
through or from for the teams of people
who are building things to go through an
evolutionary process it would take us
generations and we don't have that kind
of time right now you know so how can we
work in collaboration with these kinds
of systems to create things that that
give us lots of variation that reduce
the amount of materials that we're using
you know in what ways can we be
accelerating evolution effectively to to
promote efficiency to work with
complexity and you know it's just cool
to see how you see the shapes you're
seeing how the computational systems are
coming up with to the same conclusions
as million years millions of years of
evolution right and so there's a there's
kind of a dance with the systems where
the systems themselves become alive and
we are we are working with them and
steering them and the same kind of same
kind of technology starting to be
applied to things that are a little bit
more fun like ephemeral like energy so
what you're looking at is different
kinds of simulations on on spaces where
you can do a lot of a lot of different
kinds of simulations looking at energy
and thermal day lighting these kinds of
effects that take place in rooms and so
are in buildings rather and so what this
means is that you can start to actually
simulate and see how how material and
how materials and energy are being used
in very sophisticated ways and really
start getting towards a state where the
were the things that we create the
buildings that we live in are
effectively Net Zero
and if that doesn't take as it once did
many many months of work so it used to
be for example in the case of buildings
that it would take a specialist sort of
somebody from the priesthood of building
energy analysis analysts to do like they
do energy analysis of the building that
he'd hide like a big Hospital getting
made it would take them sometimes week
sometimes two or three months to run the
calculation and by the time they were
done it was it didn't matter because the
design team had moved on and so we've
never used and so those kinds of
calculations if you can be running you
can be designing something and in as
you're designing it you're getting
feedback you're getting told and you're
getting a steer around how to how to
shift the nature of what you're making
to use the least amount of energy it
transforms almost everything we do and
so it's it's lovely to see that we're at
a point where at one point in time
fossil energy was very cheap right it
was really very inexpensive to just burn
stuff and we could do anything now and
it meant that we built whatever building
we wanted we just throw air conditioners
into it a throw heat exchangers an or
chillers and now we are at a very
different state because in fact
computing allows us to account for more
complexity and so where I what I'm
interested in is what this actually
means going forward all the different
other kinds of flows in living systems
that we can be thinking about and
designing for because if there's
anything that I that I want to convey
it's really that everything that we make
has some kinds of effects and impacts
those things are often not seen but if
we can be bringing in the information
about about those flows it radically
transforms the way that we deal with a
built environment so it's not just about
the artifacts about the artifacting as
it exists in spate in the in time and
also like its affect its history in its
future so I really believe it that a lot
of these kinds of complex systems aren't
really
very easily manipulated by just us as
individual designers I think that in a
lot of ways they need these other minds
to be in collaboration with us right now
especially since the urgency is is so
extreme and I really think that if we
can we can start to apply
computing technology in the service of
life that we really have how the
capacity to start addressing these
problems much more rapidly you know we
have I think everything we need all
around us but we need to teach our
machines our collaborators to understand
how life works and that's something that
it's much deeper than what I've been
able to show here system you see some
references to it because really
extraction has received almost all of
our creative energy as a species right
we've gotten very very good at different
forms of extraction I think it would be
amazing if we could start to apply the
same level of intelligence towards the
restoration and the regeneration of our
living systems and that really is the
most ethical use of technology we can
see thank you very much
[Applause]